So unit testing may give you
the moral of the story first.
It's very easy,
because as I've alluded to repeatedly,
at the end of the day, it's a function.
You put stuff and there's not like for
a certain amount of component, and
then you have to simulate a click on that
button and then you have to, Function,
call it you set it up and so
like there's a patterns around it,
but generally speaking it is like
pretty elegant and one of the reasons.
And I will just kind of lay this seed now,
so I can like, reference it later.
When you have stuff like promises,
normally what happens is the promise
is separate from this entire process.
It what you might kick off in action
when you initiate the request.
That's usually when you put up the loader,
stuff along those lines.
And then you will kick off another action
when the request comes back, cool.
But those are just plain old
JavaScript objects that are getting
dispatched, right?
And so when you write your tests,
you can just say, hey,
if you ever hear that a promise was
fulfilled, for the data from this API.
This is how I expect the state to
have been updated with that data.
If you hear that there was an error, if
you here that we are in a loading state,
this is what I expect the state
of my shape to look like.
And then like the reaction components
are just based on those props.
So everything should be
super easy at this point.
I think sometimes we have a tendency
cuz we have all these like.
They do everything for your frameworks
that you have been set up everything by
keeping it like lightweight and simple.
A lot of this becomes very simple.
Let's just show an example.
I think it's worthwhile to talk about.
So I would call it like task slice,
and I'll probably do like one or
two in task slice and
like, we'll revisit it.
And we make sure that the more the nuances
between the two isn't the case,
but it was in place that we
have a frame of reference.
And so yeah, we probably, at this point,
probably want the reducer from there,
and I want the action.
So I may just call much actions and
make sure my state changes
the way that I expect it to.
And you'll kind of see how this looks, and
then you just follow this pattern forward.
And it works out pretty great.
So we can say tasksReducer,
we're gonna need that.
addTask, removeTask,
those are the only two we have right now.
Awesome, so those are kind of set up and
ready to go.
And then we should be able to say describe
tasksSlice, and
this is how it becomes incredibly easy.
I'll add one when we do some
asynchronous stuff later.
We'll put this in place and so
then we say it should add a task when,
and then do I see something cool.
We'll switch it to a template
string when the, So
the way that that worked in
those conditionals before,
is that not only is the actual
graters function have a type property,
the two string method on it gives you the
name of the action that it fires, right?
So this will be tasks/add
task in this case.
Awesome, and
then a lot of times I will have like
just some initial state ready to go.
And so let's say const initial state,
and I'll just use my did I not export it?
Exported user.
And that's why I had it above and out,
like to your question earlier, so
I can use it to set up test examples and
have them ready to go.
It's good enough for, and
like you could also, like, I.
I might also then like because Redux
stores everything in a JavaScript object,
you could also just for
my production projects.
I have a bunch of different cases where
things have bitten me before I grab
that JSON.
I throw that JSON file, I pull it in, and
I write a bunch of tests around it, right?
So I also have a bunch of just JSON files,
just in a directory in
the repo where I have.
Okay, here's a bunch of failed
workflows and canceled workflows.
And here was it looks like this
weird state in that weird state.
And I kind of like, iterate through
all the cases to make sure my
function takes every weird thing
that I've ever seen is ready to go.
So here we say create task and
that needs a title.
All right, tests.
Make them pass.
Those seem like things I should do, right?
Awesome, and so we have this in place.
And then, again,
you might choose to hard code these.
I'm fine with this, but I appreciate and
respect wanting to have
static data in there as well.
So then we'd make that third task.
Does anyone have an idea
what it should be?
Title write tests, make them pass,
profit, sounds good.
Then the action, With that task,
and so I expect when it goes into
the reducer, I am pretty confident that my
action creators that came from Redux
toolkit have been tested by them, right?
I don't feel the need to
test the action creator.
You can argue should I
test my create task?
Yeah, probably, but
that's not even touching Redux, so
you can do it on your own.
We have that in place, and then the act of
seeing if things change is super simple.
We can say, newState is,
tasksReducer where you pass
it in that initialState,
and then the action, right?
And we could expect that as like a three
I'm actually gonna say that it has,
He's on shift this time,
right, expect that.
A new state, That entities, right,
to new state that yeah that was
just that one scope, right?
To equal that new task I just made plus
everything that was in the initial state.
Initial State is written wrong now,
that's gotta be entities.
TypeScript would have yelled at me,
I'm fine.
And you could argue, yeah,
I could do, initial state,
Data entities, And
then my new task in front of that, right?
So we'll spread that one out.
Leave it, logic right on that,
and then we should be able to.
Here run test and it passes.
Like that is a reducer test in this
pattern and pulling it in because
you've got the action creators
already because you have everything.
It is simply a unit test, as you know,
in love without a ton of work and
like you can be pretty confident,
like have.
Getting the full test coverage in this
world is a lot easier than in a lot of
other cases.
And this scales pretty well in terms of
just like it is very easy to attempt,
you can actually do test
driven development with us and
not hate yourself cuz it was
all just regular JavaScript.
And this is like, you could do
this with use reducer too, right?
You don't have as many of
the abstractions ready to go.
But you can also use if you're like,
we don't use Redux, I have used to do so
all over the place.
Then, these are patterns you can still use
because the pattern is the same in this
case, no matter what, right?
And so I will leave it as an exercise for
the reader, so
we can cover some other things
in our time together, but
this pattern plays out in terms
of how you can go about testing.
And like Ads a lot of confidence in a lot
of cases, especially if I'm expecting
stuff to transform,
I can basically work out all these cases.
Any questions about that?
And I will push this up
on a branch as well.
>> You said testing the actions
kind of pointless at this point.
>> Well, the action creator like, all I
did was pass it like I'm using create act.
I'm using create slice
like that was made for me.
The action is I only wrote add task colon,
and then the reducer logic.
It made that task for me.
I could test it, but
I am working under the assumption that
Redux toolkit has unit tests, right?
And that I don't need to
other than to show off.
And I like showing off, but I don't
feel super that I need to do that fact.
It's been tested, I don't need to do that.
For me testing is the way I know
that I don't have good enough tests.
Is if I go to do a refactor and I have
a pit of dread in my stomach, for me,
it's a confidence game.